---
title: A1
layout: doc
---

# Assignment 1

## Interview Plan

Hunch: People use Facebook groups and apps like Meetup to meet new friends in person. However, there are still many people want to go out to events in person to meet new people, but are a bit scared to go out to meet strangers. How might I design an app where people feel safe using to meet new people?

I would want to interview some young professionals, especially those who recently moved to a new city and would like to build/join a community they could hang out with. I would like to interview them because they are more likely to benefit from such an app and would be a large proportion of my target audience. 

I would also want to interview someone who is older, maybe in their 40s to 60s, who also recently moved to a new location and are looking for events or activities to join. By interviewing two people from different age groups, I can get a more diverse perspective and hopefully different opinions and insights. 

Some conversation starters: 
- How was your move in like to the new city?
- Do you like your new apartment/home?
- Have you been to any fun events yet?

Some questions I would like to cover:
- What type of social media apps do you use to connect with your friends?
- In general, do you prefer virtual or in-person meetings with friends?
- Do you already have existing friends in the area?
- Do you feel a sense of belonging in the community?
- What motivates you to attend social events?
- Are you interested in joining events and meeting new people in the area? What are some barriers that prevent you from attending events where you might meet new people?
- Have you ever used a Facebook group or an app like Meetup to find new activities to do?
- If yes, how was your experience like? Describe a positive/negative experience you had. Follow-up question: have you ever felt unsafe meeting up with strangers from these platforms?
- If not, have you heard of such apps before? What stopped you from using them?
- Can you describe a time when you felt particularly safe or unsafe at a social event?
- How would you feel about having to verify your identity on a social media app to join in person events?
- What specific features or factors make you trust a social platform more?

Strategy for taking notes: 
- Bring an ipad and apple pencil to jot down quick notes
- Ask if I can record the audio 

## Raw Interview Notes (Recorded as well)
First interview:
- Telegram, iMessage, Instagram, WhatsApp (in the order of frequency) 
- prefer in person
- yes friends
- yes belonging
- no, not used facebook group or Meetup
- blogged about books on instagram, met up with them, but never alone - feel safer with a friend/family member
- don't trust Facebook groups, but unfamiliar with platform
- identity verification great idea, feel safer
- when subletting they used Linkedin to verify who she was
- would like that people on app are verified

Second interview:
- mostly just use wechat. also uses iMessage to text people
- prefer in person
- do not know any existing friends in the area
- "im busy taking care of the baby, so I don't really have time to think about going out and meeting new people currently"
- used Facebook to buy and sell stuff, but not to meet new people. def feel like there are a lot of scams
- willing to verify identity through a third party
- "I feel like i wouldn’t be too worried about where or not the person I’m talking to is real or not. Like even when meeting up, I’ll probably let people know and meet up in a public space so verification is good but I would be more worried about my info getting leaked than being lied to"
- "like why would instagram need my government id"

## Interview Report
**Interview with young professional working in an economics research lab:**

The first person I interviewed said that she mostly uses Telegram, iMessage, Instagram, and WhatsApp to connect with her friends. She has many friends who live in other countries, so social media is the best way to communicate with them, but she prefers meeting up in person. She also said she already has existing friends in the area and does feel a sense of belonging in the community. She gave an example that just last weekend, she met a fellow classmate who used to live on the same floor in the same dorm as her while walking on the street in the neighborhood, and the classmate invited her over to her birthday party at the park. She is, however, still very interested in joining events and meeting new people in the area. I was suprised at this response, since she seemed to know a lot of friends in the area already, but she replied that most of her friends are from college, and would like to expand her network. 

She has never used Facebook groups to find new activities because she does not "trust Facebook groups much for some reason, maybe because I’m not active Facebook user so Facebook feels a bit like a foreign app to me," which is a quote she said. Her unwillingness to use Facebook to find events may be linked to her being unfamiliar with the app instead of other reasons. Then, she shared an insightful story about how she used to blog about books on Instagram, and that she would meet up with her new friends from Instagram in person. She said: "The first meetings sometimes felt a bit scary, so I would go with my parents or friends. But it always turned out very safe and I made wonderful friends that I still keep in touch with through this experience." She felt a little scared to meet her online friends, and she chose to bring another person, but she found the meetings to be very successful. When I asked about identity verification, she thought it was a great idea to verify identity first, and said it would make her feel safer about attending. When I brought up the idea of users linking their linkedin profile, she mentionned another anecdote, saying: "that’s how I managed to find a sublet last summer since the person subletting they wanted to verify me so they used my LinkedIn." Thus LinkedIn has been used informally for people to verify identity before. 

**Interview with a middle aged lady who recently moved to a new city to be closer to her son and his newborn baby:**

For this interview, the interviewee said that she mostly uses WeChat as her main social media platform, and uses iMessage to text people. She also mentionned that she did not know any existing friends in the area before she moved, but now have made friends with one of the neighbors. She also shared a story that she recently made a friend by just going up to a person she sees often at the park, and asking if they could walk together. For community, she said that as long as she has some friends or family to talk to, she is happy, so she does not actively think about if she is part of some larger coommunity. This may be because she is older and would like to live a more peaceful life. Similarly, when I asked if she was interested in joining events and meeting new people, she replied, "I'm busy taking care of the baby, so I don't really have time to think about going out and meeting new people currently." She seems to be very busy, so she probably does not have enough time to go out to events. 

For Facebook groups, she said that she has not used it to meet new people, but she has used Facebook marketplace to buy and sell stuff. She also elaborated that she felt like there are a lot of scams where people are either trying to take your money or to take your contact information. Then, the interviewee gave a few insightful concerns about identity verification. She said that she did not feel comfortable uploading her government id to some random app. However, she felt like she would be willing to verify her identity through a third party website/app that she trusted. When I asked some follow up questions, she said, "I feel like I wouldn’t be too worried whether or not the person I’m talking to is real or not. Like even when meeting up, I’ll probably let people know and meet up in a public space so verification is good but I would be more worried about my info getting leaked than being lied to." I was surprised by how cautious the person is, and that she is more worried about her information being leaked on an app than meeting with strangers. 

## Design Opportunities

- Identity Verification: We verify the user's name and birthday with a government ID. We do not share the birthdate, which is only used for verification purposes. I think many users, such as the first person I interviewed, would feel safer and more comfortable to meet with strangers if their identities were verified. Furthermore, a government ID is a more foolproof way to verify identity, since those are harder to fake. A second method we could design is to verify with another website so that our application does not store our users' personal information, such as linking a verified LinkedIn profile or a website like ID.me.

- Public Space Event Promotion: Since safety is a concern, promote events held in public and well-known venues to ensure that users feel safe when attending. The second interviewee mentioned she would only meet strangers in public spaces, so that she would feel more comfortable. We may implement this by collaborating with local businesses or city councils to create events that can be verified and are safe to attend. This would add an extra layer of security and trust.

- Event Buddy System: Develop a buddy system where users can sign up for events together or opt-in to be paired with a buddy for the event. Both people I interviewed said that they would feel safer if they brought an extra person to an event. For the implementation, users can state their preference for a buddy when signing up for an event. The system could match users based on shared interests or mutual friends.

- Real-time Safety Features: Integrate real-time features that enhance user safety during events, such as location sharing with chosen contacts, easy access to emergency services, or event-specific check-ins. Since both people I interviewed were concerned about their safety, we can add features like "Safe Walk" where users can share their live location with a friend or a safety check that alerts a friend if they haven’t checked in by a certain time.

