---
title: A5
layout: doc
---

# Assignment 5

## Heuristic Evaluation
Heuristic Evaluation. Conduct a heuristic self-evaluation to assess the usability, linguistic, and physical aspects of your wireframes. Pick two heuristics from each of the three categories found at the bottom of this page, and use them to generate a bulleted list of observations about how they apply to your wireframes. For example, what design decisions do your wireframes make that support the heuristics? Or, do your wireframes violate them in particular ways? In either case, do the heuristics suggest improvements you might make? Finally, what tradeoffs exist between optimizing for some of these heuristics (e.g., have you had to make some sacrifices to learnability to boost efficiency)? Make sure to clearly identify the heuristics you are responding to, and keep your observations grounded by ensuring that you cite a specific aspect of your wireframes with every observation.

In total, you should aim to generate about half a page of observations. Your final frontend implementation should reflect design improvements that emerged from your heuristic evaluation.

### Usability Criteria
Discoverability
- The buttons on the bottom navigation bar have both icons that are commonly seen in apps and the words associated with the icons so a first time user can easily navigate through the app

Efficiency
- The most used pages are quickly accessible by the bottom navigation bar. The buttons also do not change, so they can be used efficiently to navigate through the app. 

### Physical heuristics
Fitt's Law
- The "post an event" button is large and in the middle of the page, so it is easy to click on.
- For the page listing events, it may be beneficial to increase the size of the boxes for each event so that they are easier to read and click into

Gestalt Principles
- For the profile page, there could be more space to separate between the username/profile pic and the endorsements, since these are two separate concepts. 

### Linguistic level
Consistency
- The interface resuses the same names and icons for the same ocncepts and actions.
- The icons used are also consistent with other apps. 

Information scent
- The pages are formatted to be read from top to bottom, which is the natural direction someone reads a page. 
- The post button is always on the bottom right corner, making it easy to find after filling out a form. 

